UNHOSTED
========

- First of all: This is alpha software so it's likely there are still one or two
  security holes in it. So please only use it on the localhost of your devbox,
  and not in production. If you find any of the security holes, then please
  submit an analysis to our mailing list, and if it's still in 2010, you can
  maybe even win our Hacky Holidays competition with your bugfix.

- Also please submit any unhosted apps you create, big or small, to the Hacky
  Holidays competition. Even if a small app, that maybe only serves to say
  'hello world' backwards, may not win, it's nice to create a rich showcase, it
  makes us feel like a popular project. :) The deadline is 1 January 2011,
  details are on www.unhosted.org.

- We only wrote the easy bits ourselves. ;) For the important bits, we used Tom
  Wu's JS Big Numbers library (http://www-cs-students.stanford.edu/~tjw/jsbn/),
  Fritz Schneider's Rijndael Reference Implementation
  (http://javascript.about.com/library/blencrypt.htm), and Schwarz
  Lanzenreiter's SHA1 script (http://user1.matsumoto.ne.jp/~goma/js/sha1.js). We
  also learned things from reading rsa-sign.js
  (http://www9.atwiki.jp/kurushima/pub/jsrsa/) and pidCrypt
  (https://www.pidder.com/pidcrypt/).

Setting up local server for unhosted web app and storage node
-----------------------------------------------------------

This assumes you will run both the clientside and serverside on your devbox
localhost, and that you have a working webserver installed there, with php and
mysql (if you don't have these, there should be plenty web documentation on how
to easily install them on your operating system. On __ubuntu__:

    sudo apt-get install php5-mysql mysql-server
should install php, apache and mysql.

Download the tar file from: `http://github.com/michiel-unhosted/unhosted/tarball/v0.1/`

Open a shell, and extract the tarball. All the example paths and commands are
for Ubuntu Linux, please derive your own OS's equivalents for Mac and
Windows. Search the web where necessary, and improve this README file if you
find any significant (platform-specific) information. So on Ubuntu, you can
extract the tarball with:

    cd Downloads; tar -xzvf michiel-unhosted-unhosted-*.tar.gz

You should see a list of all the files that were extracted. move the whole
extracted dir to a subdirectory you call unhosted/, under your webroot, for
instance /var/www/unhosted/. You probably need sudo to write in your webroot:

    sudo mkdir /var/www/unhosted ; sudo mv michiel-unhosted-unhosted-*/* /var/www/unhosted/
    
- check that `http://localhost/unhosted/cloudside/unhosted.php` displays:

    This url is an unhosted JSON storage, and only works over CORS-AJAX. Please
    access using the unhosted JS library (www.unhosted.org).

- point helloblog.com and example.unhosted.org to 127.0.0.1 in /etc/hosts:

$ sudo gedit /etc/hosts

    127.0.0.1	helloblog.com
    127.0.0.1	example.unhosted.org


check that `http://example.unhosted.org/unhosted/cloudside/unhosted.php` also
displays:

    This url is an unhosted JSON storage, and only works over CORS-AJAX. Please
    access using the unhosted JS library (www.unhosted.org).


### Configuring your unhosted storage node:

Now edit `/var/www/unhosted/cloudside/config.php` and put in some mysql
credentials in there. If the user you specify has permissions to create
databases, it will create the database name you specify on first access, along
with all its tables.


Setting up the wappblog example:
--------------------------------

Browse to `http://helloblog.com/unhosted/wappside/genkey/genkey.html` and click
the leftmost button, `Create js files for wappblog example`. You will see two
short .js files show up. ATTENTION: this will take several seconds in mozilla,
during which the browser will block. If anyone volunteers, you are more than
welcome to make this asynchronous, and with a loading bar or some other
indication that the wait is expected and the browser is not hung.

Cut-and-paste the .js files that are generated, and save them 
`/var/www/unhosted/wappside/examples/wappblog/[indicated path]`.

Open up: `http://helloblog.com/unhosted/wappside/examples/wappblog/admin/editor.html`

Make sure you have FireBug or WireShark or equivalent open during the following
steps, so you can see that helloblog.com is really only serving static content,
which (apart from serving as a hello world for you to build upon) is the point
of this example. All dynamic content is handled by the end-user-supplied
example.unhosted.org, over the Unhosted-JSON protocol. That way, the app author
doesn't incur costs when people use his altruistically shared open source app.

Type some text and hit the 'unhost this blogpost!' button. This should send a
SET command inside a POST from the browser to example.unhosted.org (which is
running on your localhost, but in the real world, helloblog.com static file
hosting would be provided by the web app author or some channel that carries his
app, and example.unhosted.org would be independent from the web app author, and
contain the unhosted account of the end user. That way, unhosted web apps are
very scalable, and no matter how many people are using the app you wrote at the
same time, you'll only have to host the static source code.

If you think your AJAX call reached the unhosted server, now have your firebug
still open, and browse to:
`http://helloblog.com/unhosted/wappside/examples/wappblog/bootloader.html`

In firebug you should see it post a GET command to example.unhosted.org, then
the js will check the PubSign signature, decrypt the content, and assign the
blog post text to the `<div>` tag in bootloader.html.

Now open up bootloader.html and editor.html, and have a look at the source
code. They only have 4 lines of code each. So hopefully you can see how easy it
is to program unhosted websites using the "unhosted.get(user, key)" and
"unhosted.set(user, key, value)" commands.

Behind the scenes, the text you typed was first encrypted with 's', using
symmetric Rijndael. This was formed into the UJ/0.1 GET-command, which plays the
role here of the "Pub", the publication in the pub/sub-model. Then this was
signed with 'd', using RSA, to create "the PubSign that Signs the
Pub". Writecaps 'w' were used to access unhosted account 'r@c'. The unhosted
server allows CORS via the Access-Control-Allow-Origin header, and the HTTP
OPTIONS command, but the HTTP referer of the POST is used to identify the app,
so that browsers can enforce same-origin policies. On the subscriber end, upon
retrieval of the blogpost from 'r@c' (again with CORS-AJAX and same-origin
separation via the referer), the PubSign is checked against public key 'n', then
the same Rijndael 's' is used for decryption, and the result is
displayed. However, all of this is done inside the unhosted JS library, and you
as the app developer only have to make sure you fill in all the correct bits you
got from genkey, call unhosted.set and unhosted.get, and it just works!

The Wappmail example:
---------------------

The second example is wappmail. it's a bit cumbersome to try it out, because it
requires you to create multiple users, cut-and-paste their addresses and
passwords into the interface, log in as one, send an email, log in as the other,
check your email, etcetera. In part the example is useful for showing how
cumbersome public keys are. But it is also a working example of the
"unhosted.send(from, to, key, body)" and "unhosted.receive(user, key)"
commands. Unlike with the first get/set-based example, the symmetric encryption
key 's' is not used here. If you send someone (r@c:n) a message, you need to
know his public key n. Anybody can send messages to anyone, provided you include
a valid PubSign (signifying you are the real sender), and you encode it against
their public key. Since you signed your message with your own r@c:n, they can
reply easily by clicking the sender address in their inbox.

Whereas the first (wappblog) example is pub/sub-based, this one, wappmail, is
(obviously) message-based. A lot of things you might possibly want to do with
unhosted would be more naturally message-based than pub/sub-based, so I'm
curious what people come up with to build on top of this. If you open up
wappmail/bootloader.html, you see there are only 4 functions there, of about 8
lines each. The receive command has an optional boolean parameter
'andDelete'. If you edit the php, you could maybe add an 'andWait' parameter, so
the receiver can sit with an open connection, waiting for messages to
arrive. That would give you a real-time message-based paradigm. I'm curious to
see what people will hack together in the Hacky Holidays competition!


The Wappbook example:
---------------------

The third example is a bit advanced; it's called wappbook because it's an
addressbook (no reference to Facebook, obviously;), and demonstrates the
StarSign pki. All it does is establish trust through a behind-the-scenes
fabric-based pki. All there is to see is that after your friend has logged in,
in your addressbook he will change from 'pending' to 'ok'. The algorithms behind
that it runs before it gets to put 'ok' there are, I think, the best part of the
unhosted library. But it's so new that even I don't really understand how it
works, and it's mainly there for people who are interested in the geeky
details. Unless you're into that sort of thing, it's probably better to start by
expanding either the pub/sub- or message-based examples.

### WHERE TO START:

- In editor.html you can see how to import a publication channel and write a
  (key, value)-pair to it:

      unhosted.importPub(pub, nick);
      unhosted.set(nick, key, value);

- In bootloader.html you can see how to import a subscription channel and read a
  (key, value)-pair from it:

      unhosted.importSub(sub, nick);
      var value=unhosted.get(nick, key);

- It should be easy and fun to start working from there and to create your own
  application. Good luck!

- if you have any improvements to make this demo more user-friendly, or anything
  else you wish to share with us, please contribute! We're at
  [Google Groups](http://groups.google.com/group/unhosted). We're a friendly bunch, and your
  contribution is more than welcome. And as I said earlier, please hack together
  an unhosted app these holidays, even if it's just to get a feel for it. Hacky
  Holidays, everybody!
